# Notes for the 实验指导

1. 掌握RISC-V
	a. 熟悉RISC-V指令系统，汇编程序
	b. 熟悉RISC-V指令格式 (must look at RISC-V handbook)
	c. 监控程序， simplified operating system that can recieve and execute commands, used to check correctness of final project
2. 掌握组合逻辑，时序逻辑
	a. review 数字逻辑
3. 掌握串口和SRAM
	a. both will be explained in the 实验指导书

review Verilog and Vivado
实验5，6之前完成 chapter 1 to 3 of 中文手册 

main files
QEMU
supervisor-rv 监控程序的源代and compiling environment
thinpad_top, vivado's topological file
toolchain, cross complication tool
compile kernal and start complication

open 编译Kernal并启动模拟器.cmd
open 启动Term并连接模拟器.cmd
open 打开命令行.cmd

setup Vivado environment http://thinpad.dynv6.net/Xilinx_Vivado_2019.2_1106_2127.tar.gz

第三章，第四章, 第五章 skip, all in rv.zip

## 第六章 RISC-V 指令概况
> https://dzone.com/articles/introduction-to-the-risc-v-architecture
- RISC-V 体系结构 is blocked, RV321 MOST BASIC, 32 bit command, must be implemented by all RISC-V 处理器. 
- RV64I, expansion of 64 基础指令 instruction
- RV32G, 通常指令
- RV32M, multiplication 指令
- RV32F, single precision floating point
- RV32D, double precision floating point
- RV32IMFD, make corresponding block statement 扩展 to RV32I

has 6 格式
1. operations between 寄存器 are R
2. short immediate operations and load are I
3. store as S
4. conditional jump as B
5. long as U
6. non conditional jump as J
-  all read/write registers are in fixed locations, registers can be accessed before decoding
- are all sign extended, and is in the highest bit. 

### RV321 Integer Operations
### RV321 Registers
- also exists a program counter 寄存器 not a 通用寄存器, holds address of current pointer
- categorized by name, with meanings: parameters, return address, which is saved by user, etc...
> https://inst.eecs.berkeley.edu/~cs61c/resources/su18_lec/Lecture7.pdf
- register x? value located in ppt pg29
- to low level hardware, no differences except x0
### RV321 Load and Store
- lw (32 bits), sw, 1b, 1bu, 1h (16 bits), 1hu
- Transfer data between a register and a memory location. First op is register to be loaded or stored, second register is containing a memory address. A signed 12-bit immediate value is added to the address in the register to produce the final address. 
- The only addressing mode supported by load and store is sign-extended 12-bit immediate data to the base address register. - 
- RISC-V uses a little-endian structure.
### RV321 Conditional Flow Instructions (Conditional)
- beq, bge, bgeu, blt, bltu
-Since the length of the RISC-V instruction must be a multiple of two bytes, the addressing mode of the branch instruction is a 12-bit immediate value multiplied by 2, sign extension, and then added to the PC as the branch jump address.
### RV321 non-conditional jump
- jal saves the address of the next instruction PC+4 to the target register, usually the return address register ra. If x0 is used to replace ra, an unconditional jump can be realized because x0 cannot be changed.
- jalr can call a function whose address is dynamically calculated, or it can also implement a call return (ra as the source register and x0 as the target register).

### RV32I 杂项
System Instructions (8)
1. ecall: invoke a system call. Registers used for passing parameters into and returning from the call are defined by ABI, not processor hardware
2. Initiate a debugger breakpoint.
3. CSR: read and write system control and status registers. CSR manipulation read the current value of selected CSR into register, then update CSR by either writing a new value, clearing selected bits, or setting selected bits.

### 函数调用惯例

## 第七章 Risc-V 汇编语言程序的调试 (pg 36)
purpose of chapter is to use GDB and QEMU to debug RISC-V programs. 
1. use -s to start a built-in gdb server on QEMU command line. 
2. Let's take a look at the execution process of the program by compiling to 32-bit code (because the program does not require any operating system support, it will easily go wrong, so use remote gdb to execute a single instruction and observe the execution of the register.

Definition of ABI
> Whereas an API defines a source interface, an ABI defines the low-level binary interface between two or more pieces of software on a particular architecture. It defines how an application interacts with itself, how an application interacts with the kernel, and how an application interacts with libraries.

Steps

1. open up kernal
2. open up term
3. open up 命令执行.cmd
riscv64-unknown-elf-c++ -nostdlib -nostdinc -static -g -Ttext 0x80000000 C:\Users\ligeo\Desktop\rv\sum.s -o C:\Users\ligeo\Desktop\rv\sum.elf -march=rv32i -mabi=ilp32

riscv64-unknown-elf-objdump -d  C:\Users\ligeo\Desktop\rv\sum.elf

QEMU-system-riscv32 -m 2G -nographic -machine virt -kernel C:\Users\ligeo\Desktop\rv\sum.elf -s -S

4. open new 命令执行.cmd

riscv64-unknown-elf-gdb C:\Users\ligeo\Desktop\rv\sum.elf

target remote localhost:1234

## 第8章 Vivado
### 8.3 代码综合

After writing the code, the process of generating a bit stream will be realized through synthesis, and finally a bit stream file that can be loaded onto the FPGA is generated. The following is the meaning of each process： 

Synthesis: Verilog language is translated into the representation of the gate circuit, using LUT, FF (flip-flop, register), etc.
- Realization: Consider wiring, placement of various components, etc.
- Generate bitstream: Generate the final usable bitstream file, which can be loaded onto the FPGA for use.

The following is the process of implementing and generating the bitstream after the code is synthesized. In actual work, you can directly click the generate bitstream option to directly generate the bitstream. Vivado software will automatically call the above three procedures

仿真

You can start the simulation at Run Simulation on the left. There are buttons to control the start and end of the simulation on the upper menu.

The above simulations are all behavioral simulations, also called pre-simulations. This kind of simulation does not add signal delay, and there is still a certain gap from the actual hardware. Functional simulation can be used to verify the functionality of the design, but it cannot be used to check strict timing. Timing simulation (post-simulation) adds a delay to the actual hardware operation.

## 8.5 添加约束
Adding constraints means to associate the completed module with the input and output pins on the board, so that the final bitstream file generated can be actually executed on the board. To start defining constraints, press the define target button: create a constraint file:

The "set_property PACKAGE_PIN" command means to set pin constraints, which are related to the circuit board wiring. There are various peripheral circuits connected to different pins of FPGA on the experimental platform. When performing experiments, you need to select which pins of different signals in Verilog are bound to FPGA. For the complete pin binding relationship, please refer to the project template of thinpad_top. The last two commands "set_property CFGBVS" and "set_property CONFIG_VOLTAGE" set the power supply mode of the FPGA configuration circuit. They are derived from the circuit board hardware design and do not need to be changed in each experiment

# 8.6 运行实现并生成比特流bit文件
The program can be written based on the thinpad_top project file. Note that there are all constraints in the project, but the constraints must correspond to the variable names in the program. It is recommended to directly use the variable name in the thinpad_top project file as the input and output variable name of the program

1. 串口访问
The right side of the operation interface is the serial port control area. The top text box displays the data received by the platform from the serial port (that is, the data sent by the FPGA). There are several input controls below, the functions are as follows:
a) Line break selection: Set whether to automatically add line breaks after the data when using the input box to send data
b) Send data: The input box of the data to be sent, the user enters the text data, and press the enter key to send
c) Serial port selection: select CPLD serial port or direct serial port
d) Baud rate: set the serial port baud rate for communication
e) Check bit: set the check bit as odd, even or no check
f) Data bit: Set the data bit length to 6, 7, 8 bits, usually set to 8
g) Stop bit: set the length of the stop bit to 1 or 2, usually set to 1

The above serial port parameters need to be set according to the experimenter's design or experimental requirements, and can only be changed when the serial port is closed. Below the input controls are the control buttons. Click the "open serial port" and "close serial port" buttons to open and close the serial port. Click the "Send" button to send the content of the data input box from the serial port, and the effect is the same as pressing Enter in the input box. After clicking the "Terminal Mode" button, the program will display the serial port input and output content in full screen, and interpret special escape characters in accordance with the UNIX terminal specifications. After entering the terminal mode, click the button in the upper left corner of the mouse to exit

2. 存储器读写
The memory read and write is similar to the local experiment board, and the remote experiment platform also supports reading and writing SRAM and Flash memory on the board. The interface is shown below. It should be pointed out that in order to avoid signal level conflicts when reading and writing Flash and RAM, the system will clear the user design in the experimental FPGA and automatically reload after the reading and writing are completed.

Different from the local experiment, the remote experiment platform adds a function that can record the address sequence when accessing the SRAM during program operation. This provides experimenters with a very practical debugging method. This function can record FPGA read and write operations to BaseSRAM, and the record content includes address, data and control
The waveform of the signal. By checking the memory access sequence, students can more intuitively understand the operation method of SRAM and debug memory access related bugs more easily

The figure above shows the setting and operation interface for recording the SRAM access address sequence. The method of using the fetch sequence record function is very simple. In the above figure, set the number of record fetches to be set, and then click the start button, and the system will start to record fetches in the background. At this time, if the experimenter's FPGA design reads and writes the BaseSRAM chip according to the timing requirements, the read and write address, data and other information will be recorded. When the number of records reaches the set value, the system stops recording and displays the results on the page. The experimenter can browse the fetch sequence recorded by the system in the list, and click the button on the right of each record to view the fetched waveform. When solving timing problems, the experimenter can refer to the time label on the waveform. Due to the limitation of sampling rate, the error of time labeling is 4ns.

## 第10章

10.5 Phase-locked loop circuit 

This last part introduces the phase-locked loop circuit, which can be used to generate clocks of different frequencies. The phase-locked loop circuit is not necessary in the first few experiments (but it is recommended to be used to help the subsequent experiments.) The following paragraph is taken from wikipedia.

Phase-locked loops (PLL: Phase-locked loops) is a frequency and phase synchronization technology based on the principle of feedback control. Its function is to synchronize the clock output by the circuit with its external reference clock. When the frequency or phase of the reference clock changes, the phase-locked loop will detect this change and adjust the output frequency through its internal feedback system until the two are resynchronized. This synchronization is also called "phase-locked" ( Phase-locked). Regarding the principle of the phase-locked loop circuit, you can refer to the content on the network or other textbooks. In our experiment, we only need to use the phase-locked loop circuit to generate the required clock signal. The reason for generating a specific clock signal is that all circuits are delayed, and the signals of all circuit elements in one beat in the processor need to be stabilized before they can enter the next beat. In our experimental environment, the delay of SRAM is about 20ns, which is exactly the frequency of 50MHz. Therefore, if you run the processor directly at a frequency of 50MHz, the electrical signal is not stable, and you must use a frequency division method to access a lower frequency signal.
